Python Tutorial/Environment Doc Changes (#6323)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/python/environments.md

MetaDescription: Configuring Python Environments in Visual Studio Code
MetaSocialImage: images/tutorial/social.png
---
# Python environments in VS Code

An "environment" in Python is the context in which a Python program runs that consists of an interpreter and any number of installed packages.

> **Note**: If you'd like to become more familiar with the Python programming language, review [More Python resources](#more-python-resources).

## Types of Python environments

### Global environments

By default, any Python interpreter installed runs in its own **global environment**. For example, if you just run `python`, `python3`, or `py` at a new terminal (depending on how you installed Python), you're running in that interpreter's global environment. Any packages that you install or uninstall affect the global environment and all programs that you run within it.

> > **Tip**: In Python, it is best practice to create an environment for each workspace.

Reviewer: maybe "to create a virtual environment" and then link to the virtual environment section below? If someone stops reading at this sentence it could sound like it's a best practice to create a "global" env for each workspace.

Reviewer: ugh but not really cause if people use conda envs or other types of venvs that are not local that is fine too.  So maybe something like:
"it is best practice to create a separate environment from each workspace, for example by using a local environment"

> > **Tip**: In Python, it is best practice to create an environment for each workspace.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Tip**: In Python, it is best practice to create a workspace-specific environment.
```

### Local environments

There are two types of environments that you can create for your workspace: **virtual** and **conda**. These environments allow you to install packages without affecting other environments, isolating your workspace's package installations.

#### Virtual environments

> A [**virtual environment**](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-virtual-environment) is a built-in way to create an environment. A virtual environment creates a folder that contains a copy (or symlink) to a specific interpreter. When you install packages into a virtual environment it will end up in this new folder, thus, isolated from other packages used by other workspaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A [**virtual environment**](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-virtual-environment) is a built-in way to create an environment. A virtual environment creates a folder that contains a copy (or symlink) to a specific interpreter. When you install packages into a virtual environment it will end up in this new folder, and thus isolated from other packages used by other workspaces.
```

> **Note:** On Windows, it can take a little time for VS Code to detect available conda environments. During that process, you may see "(cached)" before the path to an environment. The label indicates that VS Code is presently working with cached information for that environment.

> If you have a folder or a workspace open in VS Code and you select an interpreter from the list, the Python extension will store that information internally. This ensure that the same interpreter will be used when you reopen the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a folder or a workspace open in VS Code and you select an interpreter from the list, the Python extension will store that information internally. This ensures that the same interpreter will be used when you reopen the workspace.
```

> The selected environment is used by the Python extention for running Python code (using the **Python: Run Python File in Terminal** command), providing language services (auto-complete, syntax checking, linting, formatting, etc.) when you have a `.py` file open in the editor, and opening a terminal with the **Terminal: Create New Terminal** command. In the latter case, VS Code automatically activates the selected environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The selected environment is used by the Python extension for running Python code (using the **Python: Run Python File in Terminal** command), providing language services (auto-complete, syntax checking, linting, formatting, etc.) when you have a `.py` file open in the editor, and opening a terminal with the **Terminal: Create New Terminal** command. In the latter case, VS Code automatically activates the selected environment.
```

Additionally, if you'd like to set up a default interpreter to all of your Python applications, you can add an entry for `python.defaultInterpreterPath` manually inside your User Settings. To do so, open the Command Palette (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and enter **Preferences: Open User Settings**. Then set `python.defaultInterpreterPath`, which is in the Python extension section of User Settings, with the appropriate interpreter.

> ### How the extension looks for environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How the extension chooses an environment automatically
```

> **Note:** conda environments cannot be automatically activated in the integrated terminal if PowerShell is set as the integrated shell. See [Integrated terminal - Terminal profiles](/docs/terminal/profiles.md) for how to change the shell.

Changing interpreters with the **Python: Select Interpreter** command doesn't affect terminal panels that are already open. Thus, you can activate separate environments in a split terminal: select the first interpreter, create a terminal for it, select a different interpreter, then use the split button (`kb(workbench.action.terminal.split)`) in the terminal title bar.

### Choose a debugging environment

By default, the debugger will use the Python interpreter chosen with the Python extension. However, if there is a `python` property specified in the debug configuration of `launch.json`, it takes precedence. If this property is not defined, it will fall back to using the Python interpreter path selected for the workspace.

For more details on debug configuration, see [Debugging configurations](/docs/python/debugging.md).

## Environment variables

### Environment variable definitions file

> An environment variable definitions file is a text file containing key-value pairs in the form of `environment_variable=value`, with `#` used for comments. Multiline values aren't supported, but references to previously defined environment vairables are allowed.Environment variable definitions files can be used for scenarios such as debugging and tool execution (including linters, formatters, IntelliSense, and testing tools), but aren't applied to the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An environment variable definitions file is a text file containing key-value pairs in the form of `environment_variable=value`, with `#` used for comments. Multiline values aren't supported, but references to previously defined environment vairables are allowed. Environment variable definitions files can be used for scenarios such as debugging and tool execution (including linters, formatters, IntelliSense, and testing tools), but aren't applied to the terminal.
```

> An environment variable definitions file is a text file containing key-value pairs in the form of `environment_variable=value`, with `#` used for comments. Multiline values aren't supported, but references to previously defined environment vairables are allowed. Environment variable definitions files can be used for scenarios such as debugging and tool execution (including linters, formatters, IntelliSense, and testing tools), but aren't applied to the terminal.

Reviewer 3: typo "variables are allowed"
